Well I'm back in my editor and this is a brand new project,
the only thing I did again is I imported bootstrap here to get some basic styling and I set up some columns
here
but besides that, that's all it did
and there, I first want to look at some built-in directives vuejs ships with. Now we already know a lot
of them like v-if, v-for, v-bind. Directives are generally always identified like this,
you have to v at the beginning and the minus and then the name of the directive,
so the v- part is not part of the directive name,
that just tells vuejs that this is not a normal attribute, a normal html attribute it should ignore
but instead that this is a directive it should handle.
So the name follows after v- and then we could have some, for example the text directive,
that's a built-in one. Text directive takes a string therefore, the single quotation marks between
the outer quotation marks which only mark the javascript expression I now entered there
and here I could output some text.
So now after saving this, we should see some text here
even though I didn't enter anything between the opening and closing paragraph tag just by using
v-text. I can also duplicate this to use v-html to output some html code,
so that's also a string
but now we could use these strong tag and close it of course and there, we could output some strong text.
Now if I save this and go to my app, you see it's bold.
Be careful when using this directive, you should sanitize your output to make sure you're not getting
a victim of cross-site scripting attacks because you can output html code there
and that of course could also be malicious script tags,
so that's something to watch out for.
These are built-in directives,
important thing,
you identify them by having the v- at the beginning, not just built-in ones, directives in general,
now let's build our own directives.
So here I will simply add a horizontal line and then copy this whole row
because now here, I want to set up some custom directives I'll use.
Now I'll be able to build a simple custom directive which shows us how to generally use them and which
feature such a directive has, let's say I have a paragraph with some text where I say color this
and my goal is to add a directive which gives this some coloring, so some background color for example.
Of course I could use a simple style for this like background color and then set the color
but here I want to show how a directive works and coloring it, highlighting it, is actually a great use
case because it shows many of the features a directive offers us or we can implement in a custom directive,
I should say.
So how do we create such a directive?
Well we get two options of doing so,
the first one is to register it globally just like with components, we can use vue and then the directive
like this, here the first argument is the selector, the name of the directive
and that is without the v- thing,
so here we could have highlight. This will create a global directive called highlight which we then
use by adding v-highlight to an element.
So v- is always needed to inform vuejs that this is a directive,
the name then is just the part without the v-. And then the second argument is the object configuring
the directive,
now how do we configure such a directive?